Composed of nonliving or inorganic matter.
The process of changes in culture that result from the meeting of two groups, each of which retains distinct culture features.
The accumulation of acids on Earth’s surface.
Conversion of sulfur oxides and nitrogen oxides to acids that return to Earth as rain, snow, or fog.
Solar radiation captured with photovoltaic cells that convert light energy to electrical energy.
The number of births per 1,000 women ages 15 to 19.
The belief that the existence of God can’t be proven empirically.
Commercial agriculture characterized by the integration of different steps in the food-processing industry, usually through ownership by large corporations.
The ratio of the number of farmers to the total amount of land suitable for agriculture.
The time when human beings first domesticated plants and animals and no longer relied entirely on hunting and gathering.
The deliberate effort to modify a portion of Earth’s surface through the cultivation of crops and the raising of livestock for sustenance or economic gain.
Concentration of trace substances, such as carbon monoxide, sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, hydrocarbons, and solid particulates, at a greater level than occurs in average air.
Power supplied by animals or by people.
The belief that objects, such as plants and stones, or natural events, like thunderstorms and earthquakes, have a discrete spirit and conscious life.
Legally adding land area to a city in the United States.
A country that is not fully democratic or fully autocratic but rather displays a mix of the two types.
Laws (no longer in effect) in South Africa that physically separated different races into different geographic areas.
The cultivation of seafood under controlled conditions.
The total number of people divided by the total land area.
The process by which a group’s cultural features are altered to resemble those of another more dominant group.
Someone who has migrated to another country in the hope of being recognized as a refugee.
The belief that God does not exist.
The thin layer of gases surrounding Earth.
A country that is run according to the interests of the ruler rather than the people.
An area of a country that has degree of autonomy , or has freedom from an external authority.
A religion that does not have a central authority but shares ideas and cooperates informally.
A condition of roughly equal strength between opposing countries or alliances of countries.
A process by which a state breaks down through conflicts among its ethnicities.
A small geographic area that cannot successfully be organized into stable countries because it is inhabited by many ethnicities with complex, long-standing antagonisms toward each other.
A business that sells its products or services primarily to consumers outside the settlement.
The study of the psychological basis for individual human actions in space.
A meeting from 1884-1885 at which representatives of European nations agreed on rules colonization of Africa.
The amount of oxygen required by aquatic bacteria to decompose a given load of organic waste; a measure of water pollution.
Fuel derived from wood, plant material, or animal waste.
All living organisms on Earth, including plants and animals, as well as microorganisms.
Composed of living organisms.
A process by which real estate agents convince white property owners to sell their houses at low prices because of fear that persons of color will soon move into the neighborhood.
An invisible line that marks the extent of a state’s territory.
Large-scale emigration by talented people.
A large and fundamental division within a religion.
A location where transfer is possible from one mode of transportation to another.
An industry in which the final product weighs more or comprises a greater volume than the inputs.
An industry in which the final product weighs less or comprises a lower volume than the inputs.
A service that primarily meets the needs of other businesses, including professional, financial, and transportation services.
The process of capturing waste CO2, transporting it to a storage site, and depositing it where it will not enter the atmosphere, normally underground.
The science of making maps.
The class or distinct hereditary order into which a Hindu is assigned, according to religious law.
A complete enumeration of a population.
An area delineated by the U.S. Bureau of the Census for which statistics are published; in urban areas, census tracts correspond roughly to neighborhoods.
The area of a city where retail and office activities are clustered.
An urban settlement that has been legally incorporated into an independent, self-governing unit known as a municipality.
A market center for the exchange of services by people attracted from the surrounding area.
A theory that explains the distribution of services based on the fact that settlements serve as centers of market areas for services; larger settlements are fewer and farther apart than smaller settlements and provide services for a larger number of people who are willing to travel farther.
Forces that can divide a nation.
An attitude that tends to unify people and enhance support for a state.
A grass that yields grain for food.
Migration of people to a specific location because relatives or members of the same nationality previously migrated there.
A gas used as a solvent, a propellant in aerosols, a refrigerant, and in plastic foams and fire extinguishers.
A geographical feature on land such as a valley, defile or a bridge, or at sea such as a straight which an armed force is forced to pass, therefore greatly decreasing its combat, in order to reach its objective.
The temporary movement of a migrant worker between home and host countries to seek employment.
Short-term, repetitive, or cyclical movements that recur on a regular basis.
Scientific research by amateur scientists.
A sovereign state comprising a city and its immediate hinterland.
The long-term average weather condition at a particular ­location.
A rural settlement in which the houses and farm buildings of each family are situated close to each other, with fields surrounding the settlement.
A state of political tension and military rivalry between nations that stops short of full-scale war, especially that which existed between the United States and Soviet Union following World War II.
An attempt by one country to establish settlements and to impose its political, economic, and cultural principles in another territory.
A territory that is legally tied to a sovereign state rather than completely independent.
In the United States, two or more contiguous CBSAs tied together by commuting patterns.
Agriculture undertaken primarily to generate products for sale off the farm.
A state in which the distance from the center to any boundary does not vary significantly.
The spread of something over a given area.
A model of the internal structure of cities in which social groups are spatially arranged in a series of rings.
A local assembly of persons brought together for common religious worship.
Refers to the relationships among people and objects across the barrier of space.
The sustainable management of a natural resource.
A service that primarily meets the needs of individual consumers, including retail, education, health, and leisure services.
The use of water that evaporates rather than being returned to nature as a liquid.
The rapid, widespread diffusion of a feature or trend throughout a population.
A member-owned, member-governed business that operates for the benefit of its members according to common principles agreed upon by the international cooperative community.
In the United States, any MSA or USA.
A set of religious beliefs concerning the origin of the universe.
Manufacturing based in homes rather than in factories, most common prior to the Industrial Revolution.
Net migration from urban to rural areas in more developed countries.
A language that results from the mixing of a colonizer’s language with the indigenous language of the people being dominated.
Any plant gathered from a field as a harvest during a particular season.
The practice of rotating use of different fields from crop to crop each year to avoid exhausting the soil.
The total number of live births in a year for every 1,000 people alive in the society.
The total number of deaths in a year for every 1,000 people alive in the society.
A cultural boundary, or cultural area, defines a geographic area wherein a group of people share the same cultural practices and traditions.
A geographic approach that emphasizes human—environment relationships.
An approach to geography that emphasizes the relationships among social and physical phenomena in a particular study area.
The body of customary beliefs, social forms, and material traits that together constitute a group’s distinct tradition.
The frequent repetition of an act, to the extent that it becomes characteristic of the group of people performing the act.
A form of commercial agriculture that specializes in the production of milk and other dairy products.
The action of changing from colonial to independent status.
A country in which citizens elect leaders and can run for office.
The introduction of a democratic system or democratic principles.
The process of change in a society’s population from a condition of high crude birth and death rates and low rate of natural increase to a condition of low crude birth and death rates, low rate of natural increase, and higher total population.
The scientific study of population characteristics.
A combination of Deutsch (the German word for German) and English.
A division of a branch that unites a number of local congregations into a single legal and administrative body.
The frequency with which something exists within a given unit of area.
The change in density in an urban area from the center to the periphery.
The number of people under age 15 and over age 64 compared to the number of people active in the labor force.
Degradation of land, especially in semiarid areas, primarily because of human actions such as excessive crop planting, animal grazing, and tree cutting. Also known as semiarid land degradation.
A country that has progressed relatively far along a continuum of development.
A country that is at a relatively early stage in the process of development.
A language spoken in daily use with a literary tradition that is not widely distributed.
A process of improvement in the conditions of people through diffusion of knowledge and technology.
Movement of power from the central government to regional governments within state.
A regional variety of a language distinguished by vocabulary, spelling, and pronunciation.
The amount of food that an individual consumes, measured in kilocalories (Calories in the United States).
The process of spread of a feature or trend from one place to another over time.
A rural settlement pattern characterized by isolated farms rather than clustered villages.
The diminished importance and eventual disappearance of a phenomenon with increasing distance from its origin.
The arrangement of something across Earth’s surface.
Harvesting twice a year from the same field.
The number of years needed to double a population, ­assuming a constant rate of natural increase.
A dialect spoken by some African Americans.
The scientific study of ecosystems.
A community’s collection of basic businesses.
A group of living organisms and the abiotic spheres with which they interact.
The portion of Earth’s surface occupied by permanent human settlement.
A large node of office and retail activities on the edge of an urban area.
The number of working-age people (ages 15 to 64) divided by the number of persons 65 and older.
A state with a long, narrow shape.
Migration from a location.
The process of consolidating small landholdings into a smaller number of larger farms in England during the eighteenth century.
A nineteenth- and early twentiethcentury approach to the study of geography which argued that the general laws sought by human geographers could be found in the physical sciences. Geography was therefore the study of how the physical environment caused human activities.
The process of change in the distinctive causes of death in each stage of the demographic transition.
The branch of medical science concerned with the incidence, distribution, and control of diseases that are prevalent among a population at a special time and are produced by some special causes not generally present in the affected locality.
A purposeful policy designed by one ethnic or religious group to remove by violent and terror-inspiring means the civilian population of another ethnic or religious group from certain geographic areas.
A place with a high concentration of an ethnic group that is distinct from those in the surrounding area.
Identity with a group of people who share the cultural traditions of a particular homeland or hearth.
A religion with a relatively concentrated spatial distribution whose principles are likely to be based on the physical characteristics of the particular location in which its adherents are concentrated.
A suburban area with a cluster of a particular ethnic population.
The spread of a feature or trend among people from one area to another in an additive process.
A language that was once used by people in daily activities but is no longer used.
An alternative to international trade that provides greater equity to workers, small businesses, and consumers, focusing primarily on products exported from developing countries to developed countries.
An internal organization of a state that allocates most powers to units of local government.
The percentage of women holding full-time jobs outside the home.
A process of change in the use of a house, from single-family owner occupancy to abandonment.
The capture of wild fish and other seafood living in the waters.
The splitting of an atomic nucleus to release energy.
An area subject to flooding during a given number of years, according to historical trends.
Culture traditionally practiced by a small, homogeneous, rural group living in relative isolation from other groups.
An area that has a substantial amount of low-income residents and has poor access to a grocery store, defined in most cases as further than 1 mile.
Physical, social, and economic access at all times to safe and nutritious food sufficient to meet dietary needs and food preferences for an active and healthy life.
Permanent movement, usually compelled by cultural factors.
A form of mass production in which each worker is assigned one specific task to perform repeatedly.
Investment made by a foreign company in the economy of another country.
An area in which everyone shares in common one or more distinctive characteristics.
An energy source formed from the residue of plants and animals buried millions of years ago.
A state that includes several discontinuous pieces of territory.
A combination of français and anglais (the French words for French and English, respectively).
A zone separating two states in which neither state exercises political control.
An area organized around a node or focal point.
Literal interpretation and strict adherence to basic principles of a religion (or a religious branch, denomination, or congregation).
Creation of energy by joining the nuclei of two hydrogen atoms to form helium.
An indicator constructed by the U.N. to measure the gender gap in the level of achievement in terms of income, education, and life expectancy.
An indicator constructed by the U.N. to measure the extent of each country’s gender inequality in terms of reproductive health, empowerment, and the labor market.
A living organism that possesses a novel combination of genetic material obtained through the use of modern biotechnology.
The mass killing of a group of people in an attempt to eliminate the entire group from existence.
A process of converting an urban neighborhood from a predominantly low-income, renter-occupied area to a predominantly middle-class, owner-occupied area.
A boundary that is defined by a geographic feature.
The development and analysis of data about Earth acquired through satellite and other electronic information technologies.
A computer system that stores, organizes, analyzes, and displays geographic data.
The study of the strategic value of land and sea in the context of national economic and military power and ambitions.
The study of the strategic value of land and sea in the context of national economic and military power and ambitions.
Identification and storage of a piece of information by its precise latitude and longitude coordinates.
Energy from steam or hot water produced from hot or molten underground rocks.
The process of redrawing legislative boundaries for the purpose of benefiting the party in power.
During the Middle Ages, a neighborhood in a city set up by law to be inhabited only by Jews; now used to denote a section of a city in which members of any minority group live because of social, legal, or economic pressure.
Actions or processes that involve the entire world and result in making something worldwide in scope.
A system that determines the precise position of something on Earth through a series of satellites, tracking stations, and receivers.
Seed of a cereal grass.
A model which holds that the potential use of a service at a particular location is directly related to the number of people in a location and inversely related to the distance people must travel to reach the service.
The anticipated increase in Earth’s temperature caused by carbon dioxide (emitted by burning fossil fuels) trapping some of the radiation emitted by the surface.
Rapid diffusion of new agricultural technology, especially new high-yield seeds and fertilizers.
The time in the zone encompassing the prime meridian, or 0° longitude.
The value of the total output of goods and services produced in a country in a year, not accounting for money that leaves and enters the country.
The value of the output of goods and services produced in a country in a year, including money that leaves and enters the country.
A term once used for a worker who migrated to the developed countries of Northern and Western Europe, usually from Southern and Eastern Europe or from North Africa, in search of a higher-paying job.
A repetitive act performed by a particular individual.
The region from which innovative ideas originate.
Argued that the greatest world power would be whoever gained control of the heartland of Eurasia. Developed by Halford Mackinder
The spread of a feature or trend from one key person or node of authority or power to other persons or places.
A religion in which a central authority exercises a high degree of control.
The area surrounding a central place from which people are attracted to use the place’s goods and services (also known as market area).
The growing of fruits, vegetables, and flowers.
An indicator constructed by the U.N. to measure the level of development for a country through a combination of income, education, and life expectancy.
The study of different ways that individuals form ideas about place and give those places symbolic meanings.
All of the water on and near Earth’s surface.
Migration to a new location.
One country exerts cultural or economic dominance over another country.
A series of improvements in industrial technology that transformed the process of manufacturing goods.
A modification of the HDI to account for inequality.
The total number of deaths in a year among infants under 1 year of age for every 1,000 live births in a society.
An area within a city in a less developed country in which people illegally establish residences on land they do not own or rent and erect homemade structures.
A language used in education, work, mass media, and government.
A form of subsistence agriculture characteristics of Asia’s major population concentrations in which farmers must expend a relatively large amount of effort to produce the maximum feasible yield from a parcel of land.
Someone who has been forced to migrate for similar political reasons as a refugee but has not migrated across an international border.
Permanent movement within a particular country.
An arc that for the most part follows 180° longitude, although it deviates in several places to avoid dividing land areas. When the International Date Line is crossed heading east (toward America), the clock moves back 24 hours, or one entire day. When it is crossed heading west (toward Asia), the calendar moves ahead one day.
Permanent movement from one country to another.
Permanent movement from one region of a country to another.
An environmental or cultural feature of the landscape that hinders migration.
Permanent movement within one region of a country.
A boundary that separates regions in which different language usages predominate.
A language that is unrelated to any other languages and therefore not attached to any language family.
Shipment of parts and materials to arrive at a factory moments before they are needed.
An industry for which labor costs comprise a high percentage of total expenses.
A state that does not have a direct outlet to the sea.
A system of communication through the use of speech, a collection of sounds understood by a group of people to have the same meaning.
A collection of languages related through a common ancestor that can be confirmed through archaeological evidence.
A collection of languages related to each other through a common ancestor long before recorded history.
A collection of languages within a branch that share a common origin in the relatively recent past and display relatively few differences in grammar and vocabulary.
The numbering system used to indicate the location of parallels drawn on a globe and measuring distance north and south of the equator (0°).
The average number of years an individual can be expected to live, given current social, economic, and medical conditions. Life expectancy at birth is the average number of years a newborn infant can expect to live.
A language mutually understood and ­commonly used in trade by people who have different native languages.
The percentage of a country’s people who can read and write.
A language that is written as well as ­spoken.
Earth’s crust and a portion of upper mantle directly below the crust.
The position of anything on Earth’s surface.
A symbol that represents a word rather than a sound.
The numbering system used to indicate the location of meridians drawn on a globe and measuring distance east and west of the prime meridian (0°).
A two-dimensional, or flat, representation of Earth’s surface or a portion of it.
The relationship between the size of an object on a map and the size of the actual feature on Earth’s surface.
A factory built by a U.S. company in Mexico near the U.S. border, to take advantage of the much lower labor costs in Mexico.
The area surrounding a central place from which people are attracted to use the place’s goods and services (also known as hinterland).
A map that overlays data from one source on top of a map provided by a mapping service.
The annual number of female deaths per 100,000 live births from any cause related to or aggravated by pregnancy or its management (excluding accidental or incidental causes).
Medical technology invented in Europe and North America that has diffused to the poorer countries in Latin America, Asia, and Africa. Improved medical practices have eliminated many of the traditional causes of death in poorer countries and enabled more people to live longer and healthier lives.
A continuous urban complex in the northeastern United States.
A representation of a portion of Earth’s surface based on what an individual knows about a place that contains personal impressions of what is in the place and where the place is located.
An arc drawn on a map between the North and South poles.
In the United States, an urbanized area of at least 50,000 population, the county within which the city is located, and adjacent counties meeting one of several tests indicating a functional connection to the central city.
Provision of small loans and financial services to individuals and small businesses in developing countries.
An urbanized area of between 10,000 and 50,000 inhabitants, the county in which it is located, and adjacent counties tied to the city.
A state that encompasses a very small land area.
A permanent move to a new location.
A change in the migration pattern in a society that results from industrialization, population growth, and other social and economic changes that also produces the demographic transition.
The area surrounding a city from which milk is supplied.
Eight goals adopted by the U.N. in 2002 to reduce disparities between developed and developing countries by 2015.
An individual who helps to diffuse a universalizing religion.
Commercial farming characterized by integration of crops and livestock; most of the crops are fed to animals rather than consumed directly by humans.
All types of movements between locations.
The doctrine of or belief in the existence of only one God.
The relationship between a states size or shape & its political situation.
A state that contains more than one ethnicity.
A state that contains two or more ethnic groups with traditions of self-determination that agree to coexist peacefully by recognizing each other as distinct nationalities.
A model of the internal structure of cities in which social groups are arranged around a collection of nodes of activities.
Culturally defined group of people with a shared past and common future who relate to a territory and government.
A state whose territory corresponds to that occupied by a particular ethnicity.
Loyalty and devotion to a particular nationality.
Identity with a group of people who share legal attachment to a particular country.
The North Atlantic Treaty Organization, also called the North Atlantic Alliance, is an intergovernmental military alliance between 30 European and North American countries.
The percentage growth of a population in a year, computed as the crude birth rate minus the crude death rate.
The control of less-developed countries by developed countries through indirect means.
The difference between the level of immigration and the level of emigration.
A chain of communication that connects places.
Transfer of some types of jobs, especially those requiring low-paid, less-skilled workers, from more developed to less developed countries.
A business that sells its products primarily to consumers in the same settlement.
The use of water that is returned to nature as a liquid.
Pollution that originates from a large, diffuse area.
A source of energy that has a finite supply capable of being exhausted.
Something produced in nature more slowly than it is consumed by humans.
A farming practice that leaves all of the soil undisturbed and the entire residue of the previous year’s harvest left untouched on the fields.
The language adopted for use by a government for the conduct of business and publication of documents.
The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries.
A decision by a corporation to turn over much of the responsibility for production to independent suppliers.
Capturing fish faster than they can reproduce.
A situation in which the number of people in an area exceeds the capacity of the environment to support life at a decent standard of living.
A gas that absorbs ultraviolet solar radiation and is found in the stratosphere, a zone 15 to 50 kilometers (9 to 30 miles) above Earth’s surface.
The Malay word for wet rice, increasingly used to describe a flooded field.
Disease that occurs over a wide geographic area and affects a very high proportion of the population.
A circle drawn around the globe parallel to the equator and at right angles to the meridians.
Community-based mapping, representing local knowledge and information.
Solar energy systems that collect energy without the use of mechanical devices.
A form of subsistence agriculture based on herding domesticated animals.
The geometric or regular arrangement of something in a particular area.
A state that completely surrounds another one.
A model of North American urban areas consisting of an inner city surrounded by large suburban residential and business areas tied together by a beltway or ring road.
An atmospheric condition formed through a combination of weather conditions and pollution, especially from motor vehicle emissions.
The number of people per unit area of arable land, which is land suitable for agriculture.
A form of speech that adopts a simplified grammar and limited vocabulary of a lingua franca; used for communications among speakers of two different languages.
A journey to a place considered sacred for religious purposes.
A specific point on Earth, distinguished by a particular characteristic.
A large farm in tropical and subtropical climates that specializes in the production of one or two crops for sale, usually to a more developed country.
Pollution that enters a body of water from a specific source.
Land that the Dutch have created by draining water from an area.
Concentration of waste added to air, water, or land at a greater level than occurs in average air, water, or land.
Belief in or worship of more than one god.
Culture found in a large, heterogeneous society that shares certain habits despite differences in other personal characteristics.
A bar graph that represents the distribution of population by age and sex.
The theory that the physical environment may set limits on human actions, but people have the ability to adjust to the physical environment and choose a course of action from many alternatives.
Adoption by companies of flexible work rules, such as the allocation of workers to teams that perform a variety of tasks.
The study of space as the product of ideologies or value systems of ruling elites.
The amount of a resource in deposits not yet identified but thought to exist.
The maintenance of resources in their present condition, with as little human impact as possible.
In the United States, any CSA, any MSA not included in a CSA, or any μSA not included in a CSA.
The portion of the economy concerned with the direct extraction of materials from Earth, generally through agriculture.
A city that is the largest settlement in a country and has more than twice as many people as the second-ranking settlement.
A pattern of settlements in a country such that the largest settlement has more than twice as many people as the second-ranking settlement.
The most productive farmland.
The meridian, designated as 0° longitude, that passes through the Royal Observatory at Greenwich, England.
The value of a particular product compared to the amount of labor needed to make it.
A system used to transfer locations from Earth’s surface to a flat map.
An otherwise compact state with a large projecting ­extension.
The amount of a resource remaining in discovered deposits.
Government-owned housing rented to low-income individual, with rents set at 30 percent of the tenant’s income.
A service offered by the government to provide security and protection for citizens and businesses.
A factor that induces people to move to a new location.
The number of enrolled students divided by the number of teachers.
The amount of money needed in one country to purchase the same goods and services in another country.
A factor that induces people to move out of their present location.
In reference to migration, a law that places a maximum limit on the number of people who can immigrate to a country each year.
Identity with a group of people who are perceived to share a physiological trait, such as skin color.
The belief that race is the primary determinant of human traits and capacities and that racial differences produce an inherent superiority of a particular race.
A person who subscribes to the beliefs of racism.
A form of commercial agriculture in which livestock graze over an extensive area.
The maximum distance people are willing to travel to use a service.
A pattern of settlements in a country such that the nth largest settlement is 1/n the population of the largest settlement.
The dialect of English associated with upper-class Britons living in London and now considered standard in the United Kingdom.
The separation, collection, processing, marketing, and reuse of unwanted material.
A process by which financial institutions draw red-colored lines on a map and refuse to lend money for people to purchase or improve property within the lines.
Someone who is forced to migrate from his or her home country and cannot return for fear of persecution because of his or her race, religion, nationality, membership in a social group, or political opinion.
An area distinguished by a unique combination of trends or features.
The spread of a feature or trend through bodily movement of people from one place to another.
Transfer of money by workers to people in the country from which they emigrated.
The acquisition of data about Earth’s surface from a satellite orbiting the planet or from other long-distance methods.
A resource that has a theoretically unlimited supply and is not depleted when used by people.
Something produced in nature more rapidly than it is consumed by humans.
A substance in the environment that is useful to people, is economically and technologically feasible to access, and is socially acceptable to use.
A system of planting crops on ridge tops in order to reduce farm production costs and promote greater soil conservation.
A U.S. law that prevents a union and a company from negotiating a contract that requires workers to join the union as a condition of employment.
Argued that sea power is more powerful and important than land power, developed by Nicholas Spykman.
The four consecutive 15-minute periods in the morning and evening with the heaviest volumes of traffic.
A place to deposit solid waste, where a layer of earth is bulldozed over garbage each day to reduce emissions of gases and odors from the decaying trash, to minimize fires, and to discourage vermin.
A flooded field for growing rice.
Generally, the relationship between the portion of Earth being studied and Earth as a whole.
The portion of the economy concerned with manufacturing useful products through processing, transforming, and assembling raw materials.
A model of the internal structure of cities in which social groups are arranged around a series of sectors, or wedges, radiating out from the central business district.
The concept that ethnicities have the right to ­govern themselves.
Any activity that fulfills a human want or need and returns ­money to those who provide it.
A permanent collection of buildings and inhabitants.
The number of males per 100 females in the population.
A person who works fields rented from a landowner and pays the rent and repays loans by turning over to the landowner a share of the crops.
A barrier of trees and shrubs that protects against the wind and reduces erosion.
A form of subsistence agriculture in which people shift activity from one field to another; each field is used for crops for a relatively few years and left fallow for a relatively long period.
The physical character of a place.
Location factors related to the costs of factors of production inside a plant, such as land, labor, and capital.
The location of a place relative to another place.
Location factors related to the transportation of materials into and from a factory.
Another name for shifting cultivation, so named because fields are cleared by slashing the vegetation and burning the debris.
Legislation and regulations to limit suburban sprawl and preserve farmland.
Statistical analysis used to identify where people of similar living standards, ethnic background, and lifestyle live within an urban area.
An astronomical event that happens twice each year, when the tilt of Earth’s axis is most inclined toward or away from the Sun, causing the Sun’s apparent position in the sky to reach it most northernmost or southernmost extreme, and resulting in the shortest and longest days of the year.
Ability of a state to govern its territory free from control of its internal affairs by other states.
The physical gap or interval between two objects.
The reduction in the time it takes to diffuse something to a distant place as a result of improved communications and transportation systems.
A combination of Spanish and English spoken by Hispanic Americans.
The relationship between the distribution of one feature and the distribution of another feature.
Development of new housing sites at relatively low density and at locations that are not contiguous to the existing built-up area.
The form of a language used for official government business, education, and mass communications.
An area organized into a political unit and ruled by an established government that has control over its internal and foreign affairs.
The spread of an underlying principle even though a specific characteristic is rejected.
Economic policies imposed on less developed countries by international agencies to create conditions that encourage international trade.
A subdivision of a dialect.
Agriculture designed primarily to provide food for direct consumption by the farmer and the farmer’s family.
A residential or commercial area situated within an urban area but outside the central city.
The use of Earth’s renewable and nonrenewable natural resources in ways that do not constrain resource use in the future.
Development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.
Seventeen goals adopted by the U.N. in 2015 to reduce disparities between developed and developing countries by 2030.
A patch of land cleared for planting through slashing and burning.
The combining of elements of two groups into a new cultural feature.
A restriction on behavior imposed by social custom.
An attempt to control pieces of the earths surface for politician and social ends
The contribution of a location’s distinctive physical features to the way food tastes.
The systematic use of violence by a group calculated to create an atmosphere of fear and alarm among a population or to coerce a government into actions it would not otherwise undertake or refrain from actions it wants to take.
The portion of the economy concerned with transportation, communications, and utilities, sometimes extended to the provision of all goods and services to people in exchange for payment.
The minimum number of people needed to support a service.
The name given to a portion of Earth’s surface.
The average number of children a woman will have throughout her childbearing years.
The seasonal migration of livestock between mountains and lowland pastures.
A company that conducts research, operates factories, and sells products in many countries, not just where its headquarters or shareholders are located.
A practice, primarily during the eighteenth century, in which European ships transported slaves from Africa to Caribbean islands, molasses from the Caribbean to Europe, and trade goods from Europe to Africa.
Commercial gardening and fruit farming, so named for the Middle English word truck, meaning “barter” or “exchange of commodities.”
A person who enters a country without proper documents to do so.
A group in society prevented from participating in the material benefits of a more developed society because of a variety of social and economic characteristics.
Dietary energy consumption that is continuously below the minimum requirement for maintaining a healthy life and carrying out light physical activity.
The increasing gap in economic conditions between core and peripheral regions as a result of the globalization of the economy.
An internal organization of a state that places most power in the hands of central government officials.
193 countries, largest international organization, purposes were international forum, peacekeeping forces, humanitarian aid.
A religion that attempts to appeal to all people, not just those living in a particular location.
A central city and its surrounding built-up suburbs.
In the United States, an urban area with between 2,500 and 50,000 inhabitants.
An increase in the percentage of and the number of people living in urban settlements.
In the United States, an urban area with at least 50,000 inhabitants.
The gross value of a product minus the costs of raw materials and energy.
An area that people believe exists as part of their cultural identity.
An approach typical of traditional mass production in which a company controls all phases of a highly complex production process.
A language that is spoken in daily use but that lacks a literary tradition.
Permanent movement undertaken by choice.
Creation and dissemination of geographic data contributed voluntarily and for free by individuals.
A form of Latin used in daily conversation by ancient Romans, as opposed to the standard dialect, which was used for official documents.
Rice planted on dry land in a nursery and then moved to a deliberately flooded field to promote growth.
A decline of the total fertility rate to the point where the natural increase rate equals zero.
A law that limits the permitted uses of land and maximum density of development in a community.
A satellite state is a country that is formally independent in the world, but under heavy political, economic and military influence or control from another country.
An area, often on a border between military factions, in which military forces and operations are prohibited.
Maritime Boundaries. a conceptual means of division of the water surface of the planet into maritime areas that are defined through surrounding physical geography or by human geography.
An extreme or fanatical loyalty or devotion to a nation.
Korea is a region in East Asia. Since 1945 it has been divided into two sovereign states.
A natural border is a border between states or their subdivisions which is concomitant with natural formations such as rivers or mountain ranges.
The North American Free Trade Agreement was an agreement signed by Canada, Mexico, and the United States that created a trilateral trade bloc in North America.
The sexiest nerd alive.
The sexist Texecan alive that also probobly is showing this to a girl.
